Cuisine: Mexican

Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 2 hours
Total Time: 2 hours 10 minutes

Servings: 8 servings
Calories: 342 kcal
Author: Mely Martinez - Mexico in My Kitchen


Ingredients

For the broth:
    3 pounds of clean tripe cut into small bite size pieces
    1 cow's fee (it's usually sold already cut into pieces)
    1 pound narrow bones
    4 large garlic cloves
    1 medium onion cut into thick slices
    1 1/2 tesspoon salt to tase
    2 teaspoons dry oregano

For the sauce:

    6 guajillo pepers cleaned seeded, open flat, and deveined
    1 teaspoon of freshly ground cumin (opitonal)
    3 garlic gloves

For the garnishing:
    1 Tbsp. Piquin peppers crushed to add when serving if you like hot food
    Lemons cut into wedges
    Dry Mexican oregano
    3/4 cup white onion chopped
    To be eaten with warm corn tortillas

Instructions

1. simmer the cow feet and marrow bones in a large pot with 6 quarts of water,
5 garlic cloves and an onion for about 15 minutes at medium heat without
covering. During this time, skim off the foam that forms. Add the tipe and
oregano and cook for about 2-2 1/2 hours approximately until tripe is tender
but firm ( make sure you do not overcook).For the INSTANT POT, cook for 30
minutes, for a Pressure cooker 45 minutes. You could also use a slow cooker
and set it on low for 6 hrs.
2. Remove the cow feet and marrow bones from the pot. Skim the fat that forms
on top of the broth. Once the Cow foot cools a litte, remove the bones and
chop the meaty parts off to be returned to the pot. 
3. While the meat is cooking, prepare the guajillo sauce. Toas the Guajillo
peppers in a griddle over medium heat. Press them down with a spatula slightly
toasting them without burnign them. 
4. Place the roasted peppers ina bown and cover with water. Let them soak for
about 25 minutes until soft. After taht, drain the peppers and place them in
your blender with the rest of the garlic, 1.2 cup of the broth, and cumin if
using. Blent until very smooth. Straing the sauce using a sieve and pour into
the pot. Simmer the broth for another 30 minutes, partially covered. Taste to
season with more salt if needed. 
5. Serve the soup in large bowls and place the garnishes in a dish in order
for everyone to add to their liking. Do not forget warm corn tortillas to soak
in the broth. 

Note
Some people add Hominy to the soup. If you can buy Hominy in a can, drain it
and add it to the soup in the final simmering.  
